---
title: 'Five steps to become a BAD programmer'
description:
  Things that you should (not) do to if you want to be a successful software
  developer.
postDate: 11-20-2023
topics: [career, programming]
---

## Introduction

There's a lot of discussion about good programming practices, clean code, and
design patterns. There are thousands of articles, books, and videos on the
subject, with numerous terms, strategies, and tedious rules. It's too much
things to keep track of, and it would take you months (or, more correctly,
years) to grasp them all.

But why worry about all this nonsense? Today we will take the opposite path:
let's explore the bad practices, how to write inefficient and overly complex
code, and make our applications so complicated that only we will be able to use
them. So, here are **five things you need to do to become the worst programmer**
that has ever set foot on this planet.

### 1. Best practices are for the weak

Why care about **readability and maintainability of the source code** if you
know what it does and how it works, right? Don't worry about functions that span
hundreds of lines, name your variables and classes with acronyms or even
letters, write lines of hundreds of characters, make functions and classes that
do many things at once, and so on. Always aim to write a piece of art that only
you (and eventually only God) can understand.

### 2. Never test anything

Testing your own software is for noobs. **Real programmers shouldn't care about
trivial matters like making sure their product works as expected** before
releasing it to the public. Let the end-users test the application for you. When
the bugs start appearing (and rest asured they will), hide the problems and pray
they will not show up again.

### 3. Glorify your favorite language or framework

Preach that **your preferred language or framework is the only correct way of
programming**. Use it to build EVERYTHING, from a simple website to a high-risk
medical equipment, regardless if your tool is suitable for the requirements of
the problem at hand.

### 4. Do everything the hard way

Using established libraries or frameworks? Nah, that's for lazy people. As an
inefficient programmer, instead of focusing on the problem to be solved, **build
all your dependencies from scratch**, truly reinvent the wheel. You get even
more points if your reinvented wheel is inefficient, overly complex, and prone
to crashing even if the user types a 0 instead of a 1.

### 5. Refuse any feedback

**Your code is a masterpiece** and, as such, no living being should question its
quality. If someone points out a problem with your program, either they are
jealous of the work of art you created or they don't know how to use it. Surely,
your code is perfect, and any suggestion for improvement is an attempt at
sabotage.

## Conclusion

Knowing what you SHOULDN'T do is easier than trying to understand everything you
should know. I hope this post helped you rethink some of the bad habits we all
tend to develop while writing software (and maybe laugh a little).

'Til next time, folks :wink:
